

Cheat Sheet Summary of Conclusions

V(x) = Sum((x-xbar)^2)/n
V(x) | xbar=0  = Sum(x^2)/n
Z traditionally represents a standard normal random variable
Z ~ N(0,1)
V(Z) = Sum(Z^2)/n since mean of Z is 0 
The normal distribution occurs naturally when small independent values are summed.
The Central Limit Theorem observes that sums of any independent variables are normally distributed.
A sampling distribution is the distribution of the average of samples taken from a distribution.
An alternative hypothesis is tested against the random chance distribution of the null hypothesis.
A sampling distribution can be used as a null hypothesis distribution for a sample mean.
The ChiSq distribution is the distribution of sums of squared standard normals.
Since the expected value of a standard normal is 0, the sum of squared values measures variance.
The ChiSq distribution is a null hypothesis distribution for variance.
The count of standard normals in each sampling is the degrees of freedom.
'Degrees of freedom' refers to the unique venues of description for observations or for predictors.
If you have n independent observations, you have n possible degrees of freedom.
To be scientific (parsimonious), you want to use as few degrees of freedom in your predictors as possible.
If you divide the ChiSq sums by the degrees of freedom, you get the variance of a standard normal.
The variance can be compared between data sets with different DoF's (observations).
The ratio of variances of two normal distributions is the F distribution.
The F distribution can tell you if two distributions differ.
The F distribution is the null distribution of the random ratio of the variance between two distributions.
The F test tells can tell you if groups of data are different from each other in an ANOVA.
The partial F test tells you if the error variance differs between two models.
Since the chiSq distribution is the null hypothesis distribution for variance, it estimates sigma.
When calculating the error of a sample mean, a chiSq estimates the population variance.
When the ChiSq is used to model the sample variance, the normal distribution becomes a t-distribution.

Practice Work:
Simulate ChiSq from Normal
Simulate F from ChiSq's
Simulate t from Normal