lecture 2 --> Multiple linear regressin

Y-hat = beta0-hat + sum of (beta-i-hat * X)

The reason we kept hat or caret on Y, beta0 and beta1, because we want to take the best possible value of all these 3 terms to define the model.

Some concept on matrix -->

Inverse of a matrix only make sense for non-sigular square matrixes. for example, A nxn, i.e. number of rows equal to numer of columns.

A-inverse * A = A * A-inverse = I nxn (identity matrix)

If the determinant of a matrix is not equal to zero, then the matrix is called a non-singular matrix.

http://researchhubs.com/post/maths/fundamentals/singular-and-nonsingular-matrix.html

RSS for multiple linear regression can be calculated as ==

RSS = transpose of (Y - X * beta) * (Y - X * beta)

How to minimize the residual, if X*transpose of X is non-singular then 

Multi-colinearity topic --> https://statisticsbyjim.com/regression/multicollinearity-in-regression-analysis/

Why multi-colinearity is a problem and how to avoid that -->

A key goal of regression analysis is to isolate the relationship between each independent variable and the dependent variable. 

The interpretation of a regression coefficient is that it represents the mean change in the dependent variable for each 1 unit change in an independent variable when you hold all of the other independent variables constant. 

The idea is that you can change the value of one independent variable and not the others. However, when independent variables are correlated, it indicates that changes in one variable are associated with shifts in another variable. The stronger the correlation, the more difficult it is to change one variable without changing another.

There are two basic kinds of multicollinearity:
  Structural multicollinearity: This type occurs when we create a model term using other terms. In other words, it’s a byproduct of the model that we specify rather than being present in the data itself. For example, if you square term X to model curvature, clearly there is a correlation between X and X2.
  Data multicollinearity: This type of multicollinearity is present in the data itself rather than being an artifact of our model. Observational experiments are more likely to exhibit this kind of multicollinearity.

What Problems Do Multicollinearity Cause?
Multicollinearity causes the following two basic types of problems:

The coefficient estimates can swing wildly based on which other independent variables are in the model. The coefficients become very sensitive to small changes in the model.
Multicollinearity reduces the precision of the estimate coefficients, which weakens the statistical power of your regression model. You might not be able to trust the p-values to identify independent variables that are statistically significant.

Do I Have to Fix Multicollinearity? --> https://statisticsbyjim.com/regression/multicollinearity-in-regression-analysis/
not always, see why in link. 

Over-fitting -->
The models that captures multi-colearity in training dataset can observe high discripancies in fitting test data vs train dataset. This phenomenon is known as overfitting.

This problem can be overcome by penalized linear regression.

Feature selection --> by reducing the number of feature we can reduce the effect of multi-colinearity.

Increasing the number of features always increase the R-square (co-efficient of determination)

Why R-square is not a good performance measure for increasing features. --> because of multi-colinearity

The solution for this is we use Adjusted R-square, --> This is explained well in RML, as python scikit learn package doesn't offer that.

How to detect multi-colinearity --> using R-square
Run the multiple linear regression of each feature against all other and calculate R-square for all features one by one. If any feature goes above 0.6 then that feature has high chances of multi-colinearity.

There is another term in Data Science known as Tolerance, this is opposite of R-square. means, if R-square is high, tolerance is low.

In terms of programming, we analysis our data using terms like 
mean, median, mode, std, for analysis of one variable
correlation, covariance for analysis relation between two variable

Multiple linear regression for Categorical features -->
two types -->
Ordinal categorical features --> features that keeps order in them (like restaurent rating between 1 to 5)
Nominal categorical features --> features that are different like (state names, NY, IL, CA, etc). These are distinct categories.






